# Embracing My Life Purpose

## Live out your dreams

What we dream for says a lot about who we are.  Evaluate your dreams.  How are
you fulfilling them? Let this be a focal power in your prayer time.  Your
deepest dreams are a reflection of God's purpose for you.  God gradually changes
what you most desire.

Because of this transformation, we can be confident that he will give us his
dreams.   These are a direct reflection of his purpose for our lives.  Of
course, this is only true to the extent that we are following him.  It is not
simply automatic because we call ourselves Christian.

God will fulfill every desire that he has placed within you.  You get your
deepest needs met because they are completely aligned with his purpose for you.
As you are transformed you desire the things that God does.

You can truly know God's will for your life.  It does not need to be a mystery
any longer. Your dreams are a unique reflection of God's plan for you.

This is also why the process of transformation can be painful.  The Lord messes
with the things that you most value.   He is continuously shaping your desires.
When he is done you will look a lot more like him.

This plan is specific to you, so don't let anyone else define what you ought to
be.  God will reveal his purpose to you as you seek to be obedient to him.  The
dreams that you have for your life are one of the primary ways that God guides
you.

Take the time to get in touch with the things that you really long for.  Create
your own list and pray over it.  Make it a focal point of dialog with God. This
approach can help you make decisions with greater clarify and confidence.


## Embrace your dreams and fears

To truly understand what is in a person's heart you must understand their
deepest emotions.  We care about some things so much that they seem to drive
everything we do.

You may have strong emotions that cause certain behaviors that you are not even
fully conscious of. This can cause a lot of additional turmoil in your life and
for those around you.

Identifying you top dreams is a great step in coming to grips with motivational
issues.  The top dreams are the ones that are close to your central identify.
These are the things that define the difference between a good day and a bad
one.

Your top dreams are not always obvious.  They are almost never a simple career
goal or a role to play.  They go much deeper than that.  But your top dreams may
have a lot to do with your career choices and roles that you take on.

To capture your dreams try this simple exercise.  Find a quiet place and make a
list of the five things you most want from your life.  This is the first cut but
probably not the core list.

Now test it.  Assume that the things you wrote down are all that you get for the
rest of your life. You must give up everything else to get these five things.
Did you miss anything?

Now it is time to be more specific.  Select each dream and see if you can
identify the crux of what makes that dream important to you.  What is the
smallest thing that truly captures the essence of your dream?

I did a similar exercise related to my core fears at a different time. I was
surprised to find almost complete overlap in the lists.  It makes sense that,
what we long for is also what we fear losing most.

Share these things with your two closest friends.  Tell how these dreams define
who you are.  Get their feedback to help refine your language on each of them.
You will find this conversation very liberating.

Your dreams are a large part of what defines you.  You are what you dream about.


## The Source for What You Need

"So don't worry about where you will live or how you will pay your bills. These
types of things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers, but your heavenly Father
already knows all your needs. Seek the Kingdom of God above all else, and live
righteously, and he will give you everything you need. So don't worry about
tomorrow, for tomorrow will bring its own worries. Today's trouble is enough for
today." -- Jesus


Jesus is the only source of everything that is truly good in our lives.
Although this sounds like a platitude that every believer would agree with, I
often deny it by trusting in other things.

Accepting Jesus as our Lord is not a one-time act, but a continual posture of
the heart.  Each day presents many opportunities to seek or deny him.

He has a wonderful plan for each day of my life.  Yet, I frequently opt for my
own short-sighted goals instead.  I am often so blind to the implications of
doing this and the consequences of not pursuing him wholeheartedly.

I have been thinking about this process a lot lately.  I want to follow God in
every way.  At the same time, I want to be in control. This creates a built-in
conflict.

The bible teaches us that Jesus is the one that starts the work of redemption in
us. We can not muster either the desire or the ability in ourselves.

What is true at the beginning, holds throughout our lives.  He continually
sustains the transformation.  Will power is not enough to do the deep work
required.

I experience this on a personal level when I spend time alone with God.  I pick
a quiet and isolated spot and invite him to make me aware of his presence. This
gives him an opportunity to speak while I am consciously listening to him.

My practice is simply to look at him, while he looks at me.  This is sometimes a
supernatural experience where he touches my spirit and brings refreshing.  He
may bring his peace, plans, or correction to me in that quiet place of openness.

At other times, nothing much happens, but we enjoy each other's company.  These
times of solitude have a lingering effect throughout my day.  I am more aware of
his presence in the middle of life's turmoil.

This practice of being alone with God and quietly enjoying his presence has
become the most important activity that I have neglected for so many years.


## A Matter of Heart and Hands

The art of solitude is wrongly understood if it is seen as leading to withdrawal
from others. It is not meant to enhance the self at the cost of maintaining
concern for others. Instead, solitude is a way to enrich the self in order that
we may more fully join with others. Solitude is meant to enrich the practice of
community.

While community is the reality we are to live, solitude helps us to live there.
Nouwen says that "community ... is primarily a quality of the heart." It is not
primarily a matter of particular structures. It is first of all a recognition
that in the faces of other people, I am aware of Christ's call to
interdependence, sharing, serving, receiving, mutuality, encouragement, and
companionship. Community is thus, first of all, a particular vision of life.

But it also involves a practical joining together. Nouwen notes that "we will
never know what community is if we never come together in one place." Heart and
hands must therefore meet. Ideals must find a practical outworking. Our dreams
of cooperation and sharing life together must be realized with courage and
perseverance in an age characterized by independence, self-sufficiency, and
isolation.

In the quest of realizing our dreams, we need to make sure that the matter of
the heart does not get lost through a preoccupation with the structures of
community.

Charles R Ringma. Dare to Journey--with Henri Nouwen


## What does God expect of his people?

The Jewish prophet Micah wrote an interesting prophesy in 700 BC.
In it he describes exactly what it would look like to follow God.  
This same message was highlighted in the Sermon on the Mount by Jesus seven 
centuries later.

God's people must demonstrate Love in Action or they are not really God's 
people at all but simply impostors that are posing as the faithful in order to
gain wealth and power.  This can be used as a litmus test since it is impossible
to fake.

**Justice, Mercy, and Humility - what God expects**

    What can we bring to the Lord?
    Should we bring him burnt offerings?
    Should we bow before God Most High
    with offerings of yearling calves?

    Should we offer him thousands of rams
    and ten thousand rivers of olive oil?
    Should we sacrifice our firstborn children
    to pay for our sins?

    No, O people, the Lord has told you what is good,
        and this is what he requires of you:
    to do what is right, to love mercy,
        and to walk humbly with your God.

    - Micah 6:8

The prophet Micah gives a message where he questions what God really wants from
his people.  He asks if God is truly interested in the outrageous sacrifices
that we are willing to give him in place of our obedience.  This message is
clear.. sacrifice from an evil heart makes God mad.

So what does he really want from us?


### Justice 

We are to do what is right, no matter the cost.  When we see injustice we are
compelled to confront it.  God is always on the side of the oppressed and
defenseless, never on the side of the oppressors.

### Mercy

Jesus exudes mercy and if we follow him them so do we. Being merciful means that
the Spirit is in control; being belligerent, critical, and judgmental means that
he is not.

### Humility

We cannot be following God and soaked in pride at the same time.  Being open to
God's leadership requires humility. This is the hallmark of people that are
truly seeking him.

These three things define what it means to follow God.  Making extraordinary
sacrifices has nothing to do with the true and honest pursuit of the King of
Kings.


## John Wesley's Manifesto

Many of the issues of our day were addressed by John Wesley over 200 years ago.
We can learn a lot from those who have gone before us.

What issues did John Wesley care about and write about in the 18th century?

1. Reduce the gap between rich people and poor people

2. Help everyone to have a job

3. Help the poorest, including introducing a living wage

4. Offer the best possible education

5. Help everyone to feel they can make a difference

6. Promote tolerance

7. Promote equal treatment for women

8. Create a society based on values and not on profits and consumerism

9. End all forms of slavery

10. Avoid getting into wars

11. Share the love of God with everyone

12. Care for the environment


### John Wesley – in his own words


1. Be ye ready to distribute to everyone, according to their necessity.

2. Wickedly, devilishly false is that common objection, 'They are poor only
because they are idle ... Find them work ... They will then earn and eat their
own bread.'

3. How many are there in this Christian country that toil, and labor, and
sweat... but struggle with weariness and hunger together? Is it not worse for
one, after a hard days labour, to come back to a poor, cold, dirty,
uncomfortable lodging, and to find there not even the food which is needful to
repair his wasted strength?

4. Beware of that common, but accursed, way of making children parrots ...
Regard not how much, but how well, to what good purpose, they read ... The end
of education ... is to help us discover every false judgement of our minds, and
to subdue every wrong passion in our hearts... and to understand as much as we
are able.

5. I continue to dream... of the time when the potential of each person can be
unleashed.

6. Though we cannot think alike, may we not love alike? May we not be of one
heart, though we are not of one opinion?

7. May not women as well as men bear an honourable part ... yield not to the
vile bondage any longer. You, as well as men, are rational creatures. You, like
them, were made in the image of God.

8. In seeking happiness from riches, you are only striving to drink out of empty
cups. And let them be painted and gilded ever so finely, they are empty still

9. Let none serve you but by his own act and deed, by his own voluntary action.
Away with all whips, all chains, all compulsion! ... Do with everyone else as
you would he should do to you.

10. War: What farther proof of do we need of the utter degeneracy of all nations
from the plainest principles of reason and virtue? Of the absolute want, both of
common sense and common humanity, which runs through the whole race of mankind?

11. The world is my parish.

12. Lead us beyond an exclusive concern for the well-being of other human beings
to the broader concern for the well-being of the birds in our backyards, the
fish in our rivers, and every living creature on the face of the earth.

